[Music]
what if you stopped washing your face
for a month you wake up in the morning
head to the bathroom and give your face
an energizing and refreshing wash but
what if you skipped that part of your
daily routine
for a whole month would your face get
greasy and red with pimples or would it
be quite the opposite
[Music]
before you find out click the subscribe
button and ring the notification bell to
always stay on the bright side of life
first of all let's see why washing your
face is important in the first place and
what it does to your skin of course it
helps you get rid of makeup remnants oil
dirt and whatever other unwanted matter
accumulates on your face what if you
don't wear any makeup new york-based
dermatologist dr. C JAL Shah explains
that your skin is still exposed to
microbes dirt air pollutants oils sweat
dead skin cells and any moisturizers and
sunscreens you apply when you stop
cleansing your face all this matter
builds up on the skin clogs your pores
and doesn't give your skin a chance to
renew itself as you sleep it's likely to
give you an itchy sensation and as you
give your skin a good scratch you're
increasing the risk of infection and
breakouts that doesn't sound pretty at
all right well the severity of the
consequences of not washing depends a
lot on your skin type current skin
condition and the makeup and skin care
products you use for example if your
skin is oily and you stop washing it all
together you'll most definitely get more
breakouts in oil production if your skin
is dry and you say goodbye to both water
and cleansers it'll feel even drier and
look duller and your post cleansing
beauty rituals and products moisturizer
foundation blush powder and so on won't
give you the desired effect they used to
because they'll now be struggling
through a layer of impurities to get to
your skin
at this point not washing your face at
all sounds like a total beauty killer
however there are cultures and places
around the world where women don't wash
their faces at all because there is no
running water still they have beautiful
and clean skin with no traces of acne or
breakouts dermatologist dr. Fane frey
explains what works for those ladies
will not necessarily work for everyone
else it's a matter of genetics skin type
age hormones lifestyle and the
environment if you aren't ready for such
a radical experiment or no it won't work
out in the big city you live in here's
an alternative for you what if I said
you can eliminate one basic component
from your whole facial routine and get
amazing results in just one week that
basic component is water waterless
washing sounds like an impossible
metaphor but it's actually a really
popular trend rather than splashing your
face with water you use a cleanser or
skin toner and continue with your
regular makeup routine the benefits of
this method are backed up by science
research from the University of Michigan
in 2016 proved that avoiding water and
leaving your skin seemingly dirty lets
your face keep the correct balance of
bacteria in your skin dermatologist dr.
Jennifer Chihuahua
says that whenever you wash your face
you're destroying the natural oil skin
barrier this is especially bad for
people with dry and sensitive skin
because paradoxically water on your face
only makes your skin drier in addition
to stealing away it's important oils
when you don't expose your skin to water
you keep the surface bacteria intact
allowing your complexion to regulate
itself washing your face with a cleanser
once a day preferably before you go to
sleep to help your face lose the coating
of dirt game during the day won't do
your harm reports dr. Twilight but if
you skip it you guessed it an army of
oil and dirt will bring you acne
blackheads and inflammation cleansing
your face in the evening
instead of the morning might sound like
a foreign concept but what you mostly
remove from your face in the morning is
the remains of your overnight beauty
products if you wear any let's imagine
you have normal skin with minor problems
like blackheads and you decide to
eliminate water from your morning facial
care routine for a month now you've got
different cleanser options to choose
from if you go for a micellar cleanser
it's enough to just dab it on your skin
without rinsing cleansing wipes your
pads are easy to use as well if you go
for a mineral based cleanser a cream
cleanser or a cleansing milk put it on
and then wipe off any excess with the
tissue finally if you opt for coconut
oil rub it into your skin with your
fingertips on the first day of the
experiment you'll struggle to overcome
the natural morning urge to give your
face a splash you put on some light
makeup to avoid messing up your skin and
overloading your pores there you go
during the day you'll feel like your
skin is oilier than usual but that's it
no disastrous consequences so far you
use some light cleanser such as rose
water toner before bed and that's it for
the day the next day you wake up and run
into the bathroom afraid to look in the
mirror would you do you realize your
fears were all for nothing your face
looks perfectly fine you put on some
light makeup and cut off to work for
school here comes the surprise part even
though you expect to feel uncomfortable
with too much natural oil on your face
your skin might give you the opposite
reaction of dryness that's how it tries
to balance its natural oil levels later
on in the first week you might still
find yourself on that oily to dry roller
coaster you'll eventually get to the
point where you notice your blackheads
disappearing and any larger pimples
vanishing
after one month of waterless washing
you'll find your skin not only survived
the experiment but thrived and came out
a winner there are no big breakouts none
of the dirt you've feared so much you
have a perfectly normal and even happily
glowing complexion what kind of magic is
that that's biology and you letting your
skin sort out its own ways to heal and
balance oils and bacteria naturally as
an added bonus you get an extra 10 to 15
minutes in the morning if not longer
given that you now put on less makeup so
will you sleep in have breakfast or make
it to work on time
it all sounds pretty good right to make
it all work for you there are two final
things you should remember 1 don't
overuse any type of cleanser since the
condition of your skin greatly depends
on your environment urban dwellers need
more cleansing than those enjoying life
in the countryside but even if you live
in Manhattan it's not a reason to
intensively cleanse your face once a day
should be enough not to ruin that
important oil and bacteria balance -
once you find the right cleanser for
your skin use it every day no matter how
tired you are after a day of work no
matter if it's 3 a.m. and you've been
celebrating your best friend's birthday
never forget to use your cleanser before
you head off to Dreamland this way
you'll get rid of the unnecessary
coating of makeup and dirt on your skin
and you'll be rewarded with a healthy
glow so would you try waterless washing
or go without washing your face at all
for a month tell us in the comment
section don't forget to give us a like
share this video with your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
you